    <h2>
        ASHER
    </h2>
    <p>
        44. Why was Jacob’s eighth son named Asher, and what kind of final word did Jacob have for Asher?

        44 The birth of Jacob’s eighth son brought happiness, especially to his mother Zilpah and her mistress, Leah.
        What better name for him than Asher? The name means “Happy; Happiness.” (Gen. 30:12, 13) On his deathbed Jacob
        had a happy word for this son, saying:

        “Out of Asher his bread will be fat, and he will give the dainties of a king.”—Gen. 49:20.

        45. How did Asher’s bread prove to be fat, as also indicated by Moses?

        45 The prophet Moses added to this prediction about the fatness of Asher’s portion in the land by saying:
        “Blessed with sons is Asher. Let him become one approved by his brothers, and one dipping his foot in oil.”
        (Deut. 33:24) Regardless of how great his population would become, Asher’s portion would be a fat or abundant
        one. In the land of Israel the territory of Asher lay along the shore of the Mediterranean Sea, south of the
        Phoenician seaport of Tyre. Asher had the territories of Zebulun and Naphtali along his eastern border. His land
        produced food abundantly.—Josh. 19:24-31.

        46. (a) How was Asher able to “give the dainties of a king”? (b) To what did Asher fall victim in the days of
        Barak and Deborah, and how?

        46 Owing to his location, Asher could enjoy an export trade. He could thus provide dainties suitable for a king.
        Because of this there was the danger of falling victim to the vice of materialism and becoming self-centered,
        taking it comfortably and letting his brothers shift for themselves. This enslaving power of materialism
        displayed itself in the days of Judge Barak and the prophetess Deborah. When the call for volunteers went out to
        the tribes, Asher did not respond. He therefore missed the great privilege of sharing in Jehovah’s victory at
        the battle of the “waters of Megiddo.” It must have shamed Asher when Barak and Deborah sang their victory song
        and said: “Asher sat idle at the seashore, and by his landing places he kept residing.” (Judg. 5:17) Asher was
        idle, not in materialistic pursuits, but in the direct service of Jehovah.

        47. (a) To whom should we “give the dainties of a king,” and how? (b) In that connection, what will we
        experience in line with the meaning of Asher’s name?

        47 In appreciation for the fatness of “bread” or food that one receives from God one should give back in return
        the “dainties of a king,” for Jehovah God is the great “King of eternity.” He now rules by his Son Jesus Christ,
        “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah.” In the case of the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel, the listing of a tribe
        of Asher as fourth in order bespeaks that the spiritual Israelites would have a fat portion spiritually and
        would be very fruitful. They would bring forth products of specially good taste for their God Jehovah and for
        his anointed King Jesus Christ, spiritual “dainties,” not just always the mere ordinary things. They would
        experience the Beatitudes or “Happinesses” described by the Lord Jesus Christ in his Sermon on the Mount.—Matt.
        5:1-12.
    </p>
