    <h2>
        BENJAMIN
    </h2>
    <p>
        60. How did Benjamin stand with Joseph in the matter of affection and in the matter of location in Israel?

        60 Joseph’s full-brother Benjamin was the twelfth and last son of the patriarch Jacob. Joseph’s mother Rachel
        was also Benjamin’s mother. This produced a strong natural love in Joseph for his younger brother Benjamin. His
        father Jacob gave him this name, which means “Son of My Right Hand.” (Gen. 35:16-18) In the lineup of the twelve
        tribes of Israel these full-brothers Joseph and Benjamin are generally put side by side. (See Deuteronomy 33:12,
        13; Ezekiel 48:32; Revelation 7:8.) In the Promised Land the territory of Benjamin was bordered by that of his
        nephew Ephraim, Joseph’s younger son; and right next to Ephraim’s territory was that of Manasseh, Joseph’s older
        son.

        61. (a) At the division of the Kingdom of Israel, with whom did Benjamin side, and why? (b) How is Benjamin
        located in Ezekiel’s vision of the land and literally in the land of Israel?

        61 However, when the great division of the Kingdom of Israel came after King Solomon died, the tribe of Benjamin
        stuck loyally to the tribe of Judah, rather than to Ephraim and Manasseh who rebelled. Why? Because out of Judah
        was to come the “Lion of the tribe of Judah,” the promised Shiloh. (Gen. 49:9, 10) Hence in Ezekiel’s vision of
        the division of the land under God’s kingdom it was only in harmony with Benjamin’s loyal course that the tribe
        of Benjamin should be located right on the southern border of the Holy Contribution with its temple and city of
        Jehovah-shammah, whereas the tribe of Judah was just opposite, on the northern border of the Holy Contribution.
        (Ezek. 48:8, 22, 23) Similarly in the Promised Land of Palestine the capital city of Jerusalem with its royal
        palace and temple had lain between the tribes of Judah and Benjamin.—Judg. 1:21; 1 Sam. 17:54; 2 Sam. 5:4-9.

        62. What must we expect of Jacob’s prophecy concerning Benjamin, and why?

        62 The name “Son of My Right Hand” would indicate a favored son. Just so, down to Jacob’s deathbed prophecy
        Benjamin was a much-loved son. Till then there was nothing in the record against Benjamin. Hence it was not to
        be expected that Jacob would prophesy anything against Benjamin, to lower him in our estimation. Jacob said:

        “Benjamin will keep on tearing like a wolf. In the morning he will eat the animal seized and at evening he will
        divide spoil.”—Gen. 49:27.

        63, 64. (a) How was Benjamin to be like a wolf, and among whom? (b) How was Benjamin like such a wolf in the
        days of the judges of Israel?

        63 Jacob had likened Judah to a lion and Dan to a serpent or horned snake; and now he likened his loved son
        Benjamin to a wolf. This was to say that Benjamin or his tribe would be like a wolf, not among the people of
        Jehovah God, but among the enemies of God’s people. This meant that the Benjaminites would be fighters for the
        worship and government established by Jehovah God. But toward the enemies of God they would be as fierce as
        evening wolves, tearing them to pieces like a wolf. (Hab. 1:8) Among the fighting abilities of the Benjaminites
        was the ability to sling stones with either the right hand or the left and yet not miss. (Judg. 20:14-16; 1
        Chron. 12:1, 2) Left-handed Judge Ehud was of Benjamin, and he used his left hand to kill Israel’s fat
        oppressor.—Judg. 3:15-21.

        64 After the battle for liberation at the “waters of Megiddo” Judge Barak and the prophetess Deborah sang their
        victory song, including these words about the origin of those who aided them in battle: “Jehovah’s people came
        down to me against the mighty ones. Out of Ephraim [Benjamin’s nephew] was their origin in the low plain, with
        you, O Benjamin, among your peoples.”—Judg. 5:13, 14.

        65. How could Benjamin be said to be like such a wolf in the morning and in the evening?

        65 Like a wolf on the hunt for food, Benjamin was to be a successful hunter. Like a wolf that eats in the
        morning the animal seized, the tribe of Benjamin provided the first king over Israel, in the morning of the
        kingdom of Israel. This king was Saul the son of Kish, and he was a fierce fighter against the Philistines. (1
        Sam. 9:15-17) Moreover, like a wolf that at evening divides the spoil from its hunt, so in the evening of the
        nation of Israel the tribe of Benjamin provided Queen Esther and Prime Minister Mordecai for the Persian Empire
        in the days of King Ahasuerus. These two Benjaminites were used to bring about the destruction of the last of
        the enemy Amalekites who tried to have all the Israelites destroyed throughout the empire.—Esther 2:5-7.

        66. Who of Benjamin became an outstanding fighter for “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah,” and where does the tribe
        of Benjamin have a deserved place?

        66 After Jesus Christ, “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah,” died and was resurrected, many of the Benjaminites
        became his followers. Among these was Saul of Tarsus, who became the apostle Paul. (Rom. 11:1; Phil. 3:5) Once a
        fierce fighter against Christianity, he became one of its ablest fighters. He clad himself in the “complete suit
        of armor from God” and mightily wielded the “sword of the spirit, that is, God’s word.” (Eph. 6:11-17) Like a
        wolf, Benjaminite Paul tore to pieces the false doctrines and human traditions of the enemies of Christianity.
        The tribe of Benjamin has a deserved place among the tribes of spiritual Israel. (Rev. 7:8) In many respects
        Benjamin is a good example to Christians.
    </p>
