<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Document</title>
</head>

<body>
    <h1>

    </h1>
    <h2>
        DAN
    </h2>
    <p>
        33. (a) In prophesying over Dan, what play did Jacob make on the name “Dan”? (b) What can be said about his
        location in Israel?

        33 When prophesying concerning his fifth son, Dan, the patriarch Jacob made a play on his name. “Dan” means
        “Judge”; and Jacob said, in Hebrew: Dan yadín, meaning “Dan will judge,” or, “Judge will judge.” Dan was the
        first son to be born to Jacob by his concubine Bilhah, the handmaid of Jacob’s beloved wife Rachel. By lot, the
        seventh lot to be drawn in Palestine, Dan’s tribe was assigned a small piece of land in Israel. Its western
        border was on the Mediterranean Sea, but on its other sides it was bordered by three tribes. (Josh. 19:40-49)
        Later, members of the tribe of Dan took it upon themselves to move far north and establish themselves near the
        foot of Mount Hermon, near the headwaters of the Jordan River. So in Ezekiel’s prophetic vision it is
        interesting to note that Dan’s territory is at the top, the farthest north, territory No. 1. (Ezek. 48:1, 2) As
        regards Dan’s role in Israel, the patriarch Jacob prophesied, in Genesis 49:16-18:

        Dan will judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel. Let Dan prove to be a serpent by the roadside, a
        horned snake at the wayside, that bites the heels of the horse so that its rider falls backward. I shall indeed
        wait for salvation from you, O Jehovah.”

        34. What experience did the tribe of Dan have in judging his people?

        34 Who is not familiar with the story of Samson, the strongest man ever on earth, who finally pulled down the
        temple of the false god Dagon, thereby plunging three thousand or more enemy Philistines into sudden death? This
        Samson was of the tribe of Dan. For twenty years he judged the nation of Israel. He was the only one of Israel’s
        judges to fall into enemy hands, but in the end he triumphed with his greatest victory. He was the last of
        Israel’s judges specially raised up by Jehovah. The next prominent figure in Israel was the prophet
        Samuel.—Judges, chapters 13-16; Acts 3:24.

        35. Did Jacob’s likening Dan to a horned snake downgrade Dan, and in what way was the prophetic likeness true?

        35 Jacob likened Dan to a serpent, a horned snake. But this was not to downgrade Dan, as if he were a vile snake
        in the grass fit only to be crushed under heel. Rather, in the capacity of a snake, Dan would serve a great
        national purpose. Though small in comparison with a warhorse, he could unseat the warrior riding the horse. By
        lying in wait he could bite the horse’s heels and cause it to rear up and dump its rider off backward. By
        unhorsing the rider, Dan could cause him a great fall. So, though small, Dan would be as dangerous as a horned
        snake to disturbers. As at the heel of things, when the twelve tribes marched through the wilderness to the
        Promised Land of Canaan, the tribe of Dan brought up the rear. So this tribe provided a heel or “rear guard for
        all the camps [of Israel] in their armies,” which was no slight task indeed.—Num. 10:25.

        36. For all the benefits of Dan’s judging, from whom did full salvation have to come, as indicated by Jacob?

        36 Dan was to judge his people, with appreciable benefits. Yet complete deliverance was not to come by Dan. Full
        salvation from all enemies had to come from the God of Israel. To rub in that point, Jacob turned his attention
        away from Dan to God and said: “I shall indeed wait for salvation from you, O Jehovah.” According to what
        Jehovah’s angel told the parents of Judge Samson, he was to take the lead in saving the Israelites out of the
        hands of the pagan Philistines. (Judg. 13:5) But for complete salvation, Israel and all other peoples had to
        wait for a greater Dan, a greater judge, Jesus Christ, the Son of Jehovah God.—Acts 10:38-42.

        37. As to Dan, what do we find with respect to the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel, and what substitution must
        have taken place?

        37 Jesus Christ, “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah,” is the head of the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel. Among
        those twelve tribes as named in Revelation 7:4-8 there is no tribe of Dan included. Instead, we find included
        the tribe of Manasseh. The original Manasseh was a nephew of Dan and was born in Egypt as the son of Joseph.
        Hence he was a grandson of Jacob. However, Jacob said that Manasseh was to have a separate territory in the land
        of Israel the same as Jacob’s direct sons. (Gen. 48:13-20) Among the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel a tribe
        of Joseph is listed. Hence the tribe of Joseph’s son Manasseh must have taken the place of Dan’s tribe.

        38, 39. (a) Why was this substitution no reflection against the tribe of Dan? (b) Why was Dan’s name not omitted
        from spiritual Israel for his being likened to a snake, and for what are we justified in looking to Dan?

        38 However, we must not interpret this as being any reflection against the tribe of Dan. It merely harmonizes
        with an arrangement by God. Jacob’s firstborn Reuben lost his rights as a firstborn son, and the privileges of
        the firstborn became Joseph’s. (1 Chron. 5:1, 2) As firstborn, Joseph was entitled to have two parts in Israel;
        so his father Jacob gave him “one shoulder of land more than to your brothers.” (Gen. 48:21, 22) In harmony with
        this, Joseph is shown, even in spiritual Israel, as having two parts, a firstborn’s right. Since Joseph’s
        younger son Ephraim became more prominent in Israel than Manasseh did, Joseph well represented or stood for his
        more prominent son Ephraim, whereas the older, firstborn son Manasseh stood for Joseph’s second portion in
        spiritual Israel. Dan made way for that fact to be shown in spiritual Israel.

        39 Thus, despite the omission of a tribe of Dan, the number of the tribes in spiritual Israel agreed with the
        number of the original tribes of natural Israel, namely, twelve. Dan was not omitted because the patriarch Jacob
        had likened him to a horned snake, as this was no reproachful comparison for Dan. Jacob could not well liken Dan
        to a lion, for he had already likened Judah to a lion. So Jacob likened Dan to another dangerous foe to enemies,
        a serpent that courageously took on an engagement with a large warhorse. But when the prophet Moses gave his
        farewell blessing to the tribes of Israel before they crossed the Jordan River into the Promised Land, he said:
        “Dan is a lion cub. He will leap out from Bashan.” (Deut. 33:22) Dan was thus foretold to have a noble,
        courageous part to play in Israel. Hence spiritual Israelites are justified in looking to Dan for qualities or
        historical deeds worthy of their imitation.
    </p>
</body>

</html>