    <h2>
        ISSACHAR
    </h2>
    <p>
        25. Why was it appropriate that Jacob should point forward to the assignment of land that Issachar would have?

        25 In the land of Israel the territory of Issachar bordered partly on the eastern boundary of Zebulun and
        extended to the Jordan River. It lay in the fertile plain that is called Esdraelon, and the international
        highway Via Maris or “the way of the sea” passed through it before reaching Zebulun. When the lots for territory
        were drawn in the days of Judge Joshua, the fourth lot fell to Issachar, ten cities being named in his
        territory. (Josh. 19:17-23) The dying patriarch Jacob prophetically pointed forward to this fine assignment of
        land when he said, in Genesis 49:14, 15:

        “Issachar is a strong-boned ass, lying down between the two saddlebags. And he will see that the resting place
        is good and that the land is pleasant; and he will bend down his shoulder to bear burdens and he will become
        subject to slavish forced labor.”

        26. So about what did Issachar have no complaints to make, and to what did his father liken him?

        26 The name Issachar means “He Is Wages,” or, “He Brings Wages.” It refers to how his mother Leah got the
        privilege of bearing him to Jacob. (Gen. 30:14-18) He was Jacob’s ninth son, and in the naming of the twelve
        tribes of spiritual Israel Issachar is ranked as ninth. His father Jacob likened him to a powerful, hardworking
        beast of burden, one that sticks to his burden, one that can take rest without getting rid of his double load.
        The two saddlebags may picture the burdens of peace and war that Issachar carried during the history of Israel.
        He was willing to work, for he saw that his location in Israel was good. He had no complaints to make about his
        territory assignment in the Promised Land. He appreciated that his resting-place was good and his land pleasant.

        27. (a) What does the meaning of Issachar’s name suggest? (b) How did Judge Barak become like the men of
        Issachar?

        27 Issachar’s name might suggest that he would hire himself out for work. At any rate, he was willing to bend
        down his shoulder to undertake the burden of responsibility. During the period when Israel had judges as her
        God-given visible rulers, the tribe of Issachar furnished a judge named Tola. For twenty-three years he served
        as judge of Israel. (Judg. 10:1, 2) Years before this, Judge Barak and the prophetess Deborah had words of
        praise for the men of Issachar, saying in their victory song: “Jehovah’s people came down to me against the
        mighty ones. And the princes in Issachar were with Deborah, and as Issachar, so was Barak.” (Judg. 5:13, 15) The
        princes took the lead for the tribe of Issachar when the call to duty came for the liberation of Jehovah’s
        people. All the men of Issachar presented a fine example of courage and zeal, so that Judge Barak became like
        them in the war.

        28. (a) What kind of troops did Issachar furnish for warfare? (b) How did the men of Issachar show they were
        sharp as to discerning the times?

        28 Their valor manifested itself again in the days of David. Hence concerning the above-mentioned Judge Tola it
        is written: “Of Tola there were valiant, mighty men, by their descendants. Their number in the days of David was
        twenty-two thousand six hundred. . . . there were troops of the army for war, . . . And their brothers of all
        the families of Issachar were valiant, mighty men, eighty-seven thousand by the genealogical enrollment of them
        all.” (1 Chron. 7:1-5) The men of Issachar watched God’s indications of what he wanted to be done at a certain
        time. So they gave David a military escort when the time came to put the kingship over all Israel in the hands
        of David. We read: “Of the sons of Issachar having a knowledge of how to discern the times to know what Israel
        ought to do, there were two hundred head ones of theirs, and all their brothers were at their orders.”—1 Chron.
        12:23, 32.

        29. Of what was Issachar’s bending down his shoulder to bear burdens an expression, and in what way did he show
        willingness?

        29 Thus when Issachar bent down his shoulder to bear burdens, it was an expression of his loyalty to God’s
        chosen nation and to the leaders whom God raised up, such as David. Running parallel with this was Issachar’s
        willingness to subject himself to the tasks that all the members of the national organization had to perform in
        common. It was just as the dying patriarch Jacob foretold it: “And he will become subject to slavish forced
        labor.”

        30. To what, then, does his becoming subject to slavish forced labor refer?

        30 This did not refer to Issachar’s going into any captivity and becoming a slave to foreign political
        organizations. It referred to occasions in the life of God’s nation when special services needed to be rendered
        by all, when there had to be a draft of workers for a special work that needed to be done at a certain time,
        within a fixed period of time, to meet an emergency or to take care of a special project that could not be
        postponed or stretched out indefinitely. Labor had to be drafted, and it would be of a slavish forced kind. But
        Issachar would be reasonable; he would see the need of it. He would not be rebellious as if more than what was
        fair was being required of him or forced out of him. He would not shirk doing his part. He would make his due
        contribution, for he would see the immediate needs of the time and would be glad to join in taking care of these
        for the good of all his brothers.

        31, 32. (a) For whom did Issachar slave, and why? (b) Where was it good to have people like Issachar, and what
        is foretold for them?

        31 Issachar knew he slaved for Jehovah and would get the due reward from him. Issachar knew he must love his
        brothers. God’s organization was not oppressing him. It was merely that special circumstances forced
        extraordinary labor on Issachar and on all.

        32 Thus among the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel it was good to have people like Issachar, a “tribe of
        Issachar.” (Rev. 7:7) For the tents of Issachar rejoicing was foretold, and we can appreciate why rejoicing
        would fill his dwellings.—Deut. 33:18.
    </p>

</body>

</html>