Foretelling Him to Whom All People’s Obedience Belongs
“Gather yourselves together that I may tell you what will happen to you in the final part of the days.”—Gen. 49:1.

1. In what period of time are we living, and what ancient prediction do we see having fulfillment?

WE ARE living in the “final part of the days,” believe it or not. We see undergoing fulfillment an ancient prediction that has not escaped the notice of even that world organization, the United Nations. Tourists visiting the United Nations headquarters on the west bank of the East River in New York state read the said prediction engraved on one of the marble walls: They shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. As this quotation is left without a reference to its source, few tourists realize that it is quoted from the prophecy of Isaiah in the Holy Bible. But the main point to note is that the prophet Isaiah said that this was to occur at the end of a period of time. 

2, 3. (a) When does Isaiah’s prophecy say that it was due to be fulfilled? (b) If Isaiah’s prophecy is being fulfilled today, where, then, must we be? 

2 Quoting from a modern Bible translation, we here give the full prophecy, to show when it falls due to be fulfilled: It must occur in the final part of the days that the mountain of the house of Jehovah will become firmly established above the top of the mountains, and it will certainly be lifted up above the hills; and to it all the nations must stream. And many peoples will certainly go and say: “Come, you people, and let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will instruct us about his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For out of Zion law will go forth, and the word of Jehovah out of Jerusalem. And he will certainly render judgment among the nations and set matters straight respecting many peoples. And they will have to beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning shears. Nation will not lift up sword against nation, neither will they learn war any more.—Isa. 2:2-4, New World Translation. 

3 If, now, this prophecy is being fulfilled today by people of many nationalities not fighting one another anymore and by not planning to do so because of learning war no more, then we must be in the “final part of the days”—that is, the days of this war-plagued world. Hence a warless world must be at hand, as illustrated in a people who are today widely watched. 

4. Which people are thus widely watched today and what prophetic command in Isaiah do they obey? 

4 Which people? According to Isaiah’s prophecy they would have to be those people who worship the God whose name is mentioned three times in this prophecy. As his name is Jehovah, the people must be Jehovah’s witnesses. They certainly exalt the worship of Jehovah “above the top of the mountains” and lift it “up above the hills.” From the four quarters of the earth, from “all the nations” and from “many peoples,” multitudes are uniting in the worship of Jehovah as the One living and true God and are becoming his witnesses. They obey his prophetic command written down in Isaiah, chapter forty-three, verse twelve: “‘You are my witnesses,’ is the utterance of Jehovah, ‘and I am God.’” 

5. What does the 1962 Yearbook of these people show that they did last service year to invite people to worship Jehovah?

5 Let us turn, then, to the 1962 Yearbook of Jehovah’s Witnesses and consult the Index of Countries where they are witnessing and have organized congregations. There we count 188 lands, from Aden to Zanzibar. By consulting the chart spread out over pages 34-41 that sets forth in detail the organizational features and activities in each of those countries, we learn that during the past service year Jehovah’s witnesses put an average of 884,587 workers into the field monthly, going to the homes of all people regardless of race, color, nationality, religion or social status and declaring to them the good news about Jehovah’s kingdom by his installed King Jesus Christ. During that service year they spent 132,695,540 hours thus preaching God’s kingdom, in more than 150 languages. That was really a great deal of time used to invite people to worship Jehovah. 

6. Copies of what Resolution did millions of people read during 1958-1959, and what was an outstanding resolve contained in it?

6 During December of 1958 and on into 1959 millions of persons in all the earth read a four-page pamphlet that these Witnesses circulated in 53 languages to the number of 72,348,403 copies. It told of a Resolution adopted at their international assembly in Yankee Stadium and the Polo Grounds in New York city. On Friday, August 1, 1958, this Resolution was submitted to a counted audience of 194,418 from 123 lands, and they adopted it by a voice vote, with great applause. Outstanding among the things resolved upon was their determination to continue to live up to the prophecy of Isaiah 2:4, which they recognized as being fulfilled in them. 

7. How have they lived up to this prophecy to this day, and of what fact is this a proof?

7 To this day, regardless of the political and religious squabbles of the worldly nations, these witnesses of Jehovah have not joined in war preparations nor lifted up sword against their Christian brothers in other nations. They learn war no more. This despite the fact that their worldwide organization is growing by the tens of thousands every year. This thing is from Jehovah. It is eloquent proof that we are living in the “final part of the days.” 

8. To make more sure of this, to what prophet do we turn, as mentioned in Isaiah 2:3, and what questions arise about him?

8 To make still more sure of this fact, let us examine another prophecy that was given concerning the “final part of the days.” It was given by a prophet who is named above in Isaiah’s prophecy. It is fitting that we mention his name here, because Isaiah 2:3says that those people who today seek to worship the true God would say: “Let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah, to the house of the God of Jacob.” Who is this Jacob, whose God was Jehovah? What did he prophesy concerning the “final part of the days”? 

9. Where did this prophet spend his life?

9 Jacob came from that part of southwestern Asia known today as the Middle East. For twenty years he lived in Syria, where he became father of twelve children. But at the time of giving this prophecy about our days, he was living down in Egypt, the United Arab Republic of today. Jacob was the son of Isaac and the grandson of Abraham. For most of his life he lived with his father and his grandfather in territory now held by the countries of Jordan and Israel. The last sixteen years of his life he spent down in Egypt with all his family, as an alien resident. 

10, 11. (a) Why should all the families of the ground be interested in this Jacob? (b) With what group of prophets was Jacob associated? 

10 Everybody on earth ought to be interested in this Jacob. Why? Because of what God told Jacob in a marvelous vision. Jacob had just left his father Isaac down south in Beer-sheba and was going to Syria to get married. On his way north he slept out in the field near Bethel (now Beitin, in Jordan). That night he had his dream vision of the ladder reaching from earth to heaven, and at the top of the ladder God spoke and said to Jacob: “I am Jehovah the God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac. The land upon which you are lying, to you I am going to give it and to your seed. And your seed will certainly become like the dust particles of the earth, and you will certainly spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south, and by means of you and by means of your seed all the families of the ground will certainly bless themselves.”—Gen. 28:13, 14. 

11 Because of this divine promise everyone who wants to bless himself on earth, no matter of what family he is, will have to do so through a “seed” or descendant of this Jacob. Later Jehovah God changed Jacob’s name to Israel, so that in the Bible he is called by both names, now Jacob, now Israel. Like Abraham and Isaac, Jacob became a prophet of Jehovah. Psalm 105:14, 15 plainly calls Jacob a prophet. After telling about the wanderings of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the Promised Land, it tells how Jehovah God protected them and says: “He did not allow any human to defraud them, but on their account he reproved kings, saying: ‘Do not you men touch my anointed ones, and to my prophets do nothing bad.’” 

12. Where did Jacob show up to best effect as a prophet? 

12 Of course, every time that Jacob told his family circle about God’s promise to him at Bethel, he was acting as a prophet. But in no case does his office as prophet show up to better effect than when he gave words of farewell to his sons and grandsons. When, now, in 1712 B.C.E. he was on his deathbed, he called together his twelve sons to his sickroom for his last words to them, as he sat with his feet hanging down over the side of the bed. This was shortly after he had blessed his grandsons, Manasseh and Ephraim, who were the sons of Joseph, Jacob’s eleventh son. Joseph was then serving as prime minister of Egypt, the chief servant of Pharaoh the king of Egypt.—Gen. 48:1-22. 

13. In giving his final prophecy, what style of expression did Jacob use? 

13 As Jacob gave his final messages to his twelve sons, he used the poetic style of the Hebrew prophets, for Jacob was a Hebrew, even as Abraham and Isaac were. His poetry did not show itself in making the ends of lines or verses rhyme or sound alike. It consisted in making rhythmic lines give parallel thoughts or ideas, as, for instance, in speaking of himself in one clause as Jacob and then in the next clause as Israel, both names referring to the same person. So this prophetic poetry is something more than what is called blank verse, which is unrhymed verse in which the ends of the lines do not sound alike. Hebrew poetry expresses itself in lines that run alongside each other in the same direction of thought and that thus express like ideas but that really enlarge on the thought or idea or theme. As we go through Jacob’s poetic deathbed prophecy we shall be able to note this.

DEATHBED PROPHECY

14. Under what force did Jacob then speak, and what does Genesis 49:1, 2 say to indicate this? 

14 The deathbed scene in Jacob’s home in Egypt in 1712 B.C.E. is described in Genesis, chapter forty-nine. God’s spirit of inspiration came upon Jacob on this occasion, and he spoke as a prophetic witness of Jehovah. Indicative of this, Genesis 49:1, 2 tells us: “Later on Jacob called his sons and said: ‘Gather yourselves together that I may tell you what will happen to you in the final part of the days. Assemble yourselves and listen, you sons of Jacob, yes, listen to Israel your father.’” 

15. What features of Hebrew poetry do we note in Jacob’s opening words? 15 Notice how (1) the expression “Assemble yourselves” parallels poetically the expression “Gather yourselves together”; (2) the expression “and listen” parallels the expression “that I may tell you”; (3) the expression “yes, listen to,” the expression “and listen”; and (4) the expression “Israel your father,” the expression “you sons of Jacob.” All through Jacob’s prophecy we shall notice this poetic parallelism of thoughts or of related expressions. All this serves to give extension to the thought and to enlarge the meaning as well as to make more sure of the thought meant. 16. Down to what time was Jacob then prophetically looking? 16 The dying patriarch Jacob looked far beyond the days of the twelve sons intently listening to him. He looked far beyond the time when the families of his twelve sons would form twelve tribes, which, together, would make up one united nation in the Promised Land of Palestine, a nation called by its father’s name Jacob or Israel. Jacob was looking to the time of a new nation, a spiritual nation of God’s chosen people, a spiritual Jacob or Israel. 17, 18. (a) On what foundations did the whole nation of Israel rest? (b) How is something corresponding to this true of spiritual Israel? 17 Jacob, as the common father, served as the broad foundation for the entire nation of natural Israel, or Israel in a fleshly way. Jacob’s twelve sons served as twelve secondary foundations or twelve pillars that rested on Jacob. Upon these twelve supports or pillars the whole nation of Israel rested, in a brotherhood. 18 Something like that is true of the spiritual Israel, “the Israel of God,” as one inspired member of it called it later on. (Gal. 6:16) Just as the nation of ancient Israel was one big congregation or church for the worship of Jacob’s God, Jehovah, so the spiritual Israel is one big congregation or church for the worship of this same God. The one who corresponds with the patriarch Jacob is the Lord Jesus Christ, because he is the foundation of this congregation or church of spiritual Israel. Jesus indicated this when he said to one of his twelve apostles: “You are Peter [Stone], and on this rock I will build my church.” (Matt. 16:18, RS) In building this church or congregation upon himself, Jesus makes use of twelve apostles, corresponding to the twelve sons of Jacob. In the last book of the Bible these are called “the twelve apostles of the Lamb,” and the twelve foundation stones of the New Jerusalem bore the twelve names of those apostles of the Lamb Jesus Christ. But the twelve gates of the New Jerusalem were inscribed with the names of “the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel.”—Rev. 21:12-14. 19. Of whom is the heavenly ruling class made up, and how are they described in Revelation 7:4-8? 19 The heavenly ruling class is symbolized by the glorious New Jerusalem. It will be made up of 144,000 tried and faithful followers of the Lamb Jesus Christ. They are sealed with the holy spirit from God, and they retain this seal to the end of their earthly test. Revelation 7:4-8 refers to them as spiritual Israel and pictures them as made up of twelve tribes. The names of these tribes it takes from the sons and grandsons of the patriarch Jacob. It puts them in a certain order, as follows: And I [John the apostle] heard the number of those who were sealed, a hundred and forty-four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of the sons of Israel: Out of [1] the tribe of Judah twelve thousand sealed; out of [2] the tribe of Reuben twelve thousand; out of [3] the tribe of Gad twelve thousand; out of [4] the tribe of Asher twelve thousand; out of [5] the tribe of Naphtali twelve thousand; out of [6] the tribe of Manasseh twelve thousand; out of [7] the tribe of Simeon twelve thousand; out of [8] the tribe of Levi twelve thousand; out of [9] the tribe of Issachar twelve thousand; out of [10] the tribe of Zebulun twelve thousand; out of [11] the tribe of Joseph twelve thousand; out of [12] the tribe of Benjamin twelve thousand sealed. 20. (a) What is to be noted about that order of naming of the tribes, but what number of them is preserved? (b) What is to be noted about all those tribes, with what effect on the whole organization? 20 That is not the order in which the sons of the patriarch Jacob or Israel were born. Furthermore, the name of Jacob’s fifth son Dan is missing, and the name of Jacob’s grandson Manasseh takes the place of Dan. Whether something about the history of the tribe of Dan dictated that Manasseh should be used instead of Dan we shall discuss later on. At any rate Revelation 7:4-8 preserves the number twelve as being the number of the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel. Also, all the names are names of eleven of Jacob’s sons and of one of Jacob’s grandsons by Joseph. We note, too, that each tribe has an equal number of members. So no tribe is numerically greater than the others, but the whole organization of spiritual Israel is pictured as being in perfect balance, each tribe in itself emphasizing again the number twelve. 21. In prophesying, did Jacob follow the order of birth of his sons, and as what could he address them all? 21 However, when the patriarch Jacob gave his deathbed prophecy, he did not put all his sons in the order of their birth by their four mothers, namely, Jacob’s first wife Leah and her maidservant or slave girl Zilpah, and Jacob’s second wife Rachel and her maidservant Bilhah. As their common father Jacob could address them all as “you sons of Jacob” and call himself “Israel your father.” 22. For whose benefit really was Jacob back there prophesying, but who else today should also be interested? 22 Jacob gathered his twelve sons together to tell them what would happen to them or to those prefigured by them “in the final part of the days.” That means in our days, which are the “final part of the days” of spiritual Israel on earth, before the small remainder of its 144,000 members get into the heavenly New Jerusalem with God’s Son, the Lamb Jesus Christ. Hence what Jacob said to his twelve sons more than thirty-six hundred years ago he said really for the benefit of the small remainder of spiritual Israel on earth now at this most wonderful period of mankind’s history. And since these are members of that spiritual “seed of Abraham” by means of whom all the nations and families of the earth will yet bless themselves forever, then those persons of all families and nations who are interested in thus blessing themselves should be interested in now examining with us Jacob’s deathbed words. (See the issue of The Watchtower as of July 1, 1962.)

DAN (1) ASHER (2) NAPHTALI (3) MANASSEH (4) EPHRAIM (5) REUBEN (6) JUDAH (7) BENJAMIN (8) SIMEON (9) ISSACHAR (10) ZEBULUN (11) GAD (12) Fellow Rulers with the “Lion of the Tribe of Judah” “The scepter will not turn aside from Judah, neither the commander’s staff from between his feet, until Shiloh comes; and to him the obedience of the people will belong.”—Gen. 49:10. 1. Why, despite the title that he assumed, did the people’s obedience not come to Pope Leo XIII, and to whom does the Bible give that title? WHEN the Italian Joachim Pecci was elected pope by the college of cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church and ascended the papal throne on March 3, 1878, he took the title Leo XIII. The Latin word leo means “lion.” Shortly after his crowning as pope he subscribed himself in Latin “Leo de tribus Juda,” that is to say, “The Lion of the tribe of Judah.” Did the obedience of the people, even in a religious way, come to Pope Leo XIII? History answers No! This was only to be expected, for the pope was no Jew, no member of the tribe of Judah. Hence such obedience of all the people living on earth did not belong to him. The last book of the Holy Bible, written by the apostle John, gives that title to one who really was born a Jew in the tribe of Judah and in the royal family of King David, namely, Jesus Christ glorified. 2. Under what circumstances was this title mentioned and the one worthy of it disclosed? 2 The apostle John tells of how in his inspired vision he wept because no one in heaven or on earth was at the moment worthy to take the prophetic scroll out of God’s right hand and open it to read it and make its contents come true. Then John says: “And one of the ancients said to me: Weep not: behold the lion of the tribe of Juda, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.” John was comforted when he saw the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, whom John had known sixty years previously on earth, put in an appearance and take the prophetic scroll and make its contents come true.—Apoc. 5:1-10, Dy. 3. Why will it not do any man any good to assume that title on earth? 3 Consequently no man on earth today, regardless of his religious or political position, has the right to take to himself the title “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah.” It will not do him any good to assume it, for the obedience of all the people will not belong to him or ever come to him. It is now due to come only to the glorified and enthroned Jesus Christ in heaven. 4. (a) Why was Jesus Christ properly called by this title? (b) Why, then, is a tribe of Judah properly found in spiritual Israel and given its ranking position? 4 In his deathbed prophecy the ancient patriarch Jacob said: “A lion cub Judah is.” It was therefore very proper that Jesus who was born in the tribe of Judah and in the royal line of David should be called “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah.” He conquered this wicked world of Satan the Devil, although it cost him his earthly life. (John 16:33) It is also proper that, among the 144,000 Christians in the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel, one tribe is called “the tribe of Judah.” Since Judah, although being the fourth son of the patriarch Jacob, was given the leadership by Jacob’s deathbed prophecy, the tribe of Judah is ranked first in the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel.—Rev. 7:4, 5. 5. What does the bearing of that name not mean for this tribe, but why is it important to have a tribe by that name in spiritual Israel? 5 This does not mean that the spiritual tribe of Judah is appointed to rule over the eleven other spiritual tribes; neither does it mean that only the 12,000 in the spiritual tribe of Judah are appointed to reign with the “Lion of the Tribe of Judah” in the heavenly kingdom. No; all the 144,000 of all twelve tribes of spiritual Israel are joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Concerning all 144,000 Revelation 20:4, 6 says: “And they came to life and ruled as kings with the Christ for a thousand years. Happy and holy is anyone having part in the first resurrection; over these the second death has no authority, but they will be priests of God and of the Christ, and will rule as kings with him for the thousand years.” So a tribe named for Judah is included in spiritual Israel, because if this were not the case, then the likeness of spiritual Israel to ancient natural Israel would be missing something very important. 6. How was Judah like a lion going up from the prey? 6 Take note now how the dying patriarch Jacob in the year 1712 B.C.E. pointed forward to the coming of this symbolic “Lion of the Tribe of Judah.” After likening his son Judah to a lion cub, Jacob said: “From the prey, my son, you will certainly go up. He bowed down, he, stretched himself out like a lion and, like a lion, who dares rouse him?” (Gen. 49:9) In taking part in fighting the battles of Jehovah the tribe of Judah did capture prey like a lion, defeating Jehovah’s enemies and taking the spoil from them. Since Jerusalem was finally conquered by King David, and since much of the territory of Judah was up in the mountains, the tribe could well be said to go up from the prey when they returned to their homes. 7, 8. (a) How was Judah like a lion stretched out and not to be roused up, and how was this well illustrated? (b) What should we therefore not imitate the nations in doing since A.D. 1914? 7 Warfare would not be the only occupation and experience of this tribe of Judah, but there would be times of peace and relaxation, like that of an aryéh (the African name for “lion”). So, when the tribe of Judah was enjoying peace and the products of its work, who dared rouse the tribe up to war, since the tribe was like a lebí (Asiatic name for “lion”) for fierceness? 8 The lion’s stretching himself out peacefully, with satisfaction, was well illustrated in the peaceful reign of wise King Solomon for forty years after his father David died. The One greater than King Solomon, namely, “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah,” will bring in a peaceful reign of a thousand years. Since the beginning of his heavenly reign A.D. 1914 the nations of Satan’s wicked world dare to rouse him up by defying his right to rule all the peoples of earth. despite Jacob’s warning of long ago. At the battle of Armageddon now so near at hand the “Lion of the Tribe of Judah” will tear the nations to pieces and come up from the prey victorious. So let each one of us never rouse him up! 9. What inspired reason did Jacob give for the other tribes to be loyal and submissive to Judah but why at first did Judah have to have patience? 9 To give inspired reason for why the eleven other tribes of Israel should be loyal and submissive to the tribe of Judah, Jacob enlarged his prophecy over Judah, saying: “The scepter will not turn aside from Judah, neither the commander’s staff from between his feet, until Shiloh comes; and to him the obedience of the people will belong.” (Gen. 49:10) The tribe of Judah, in particular, may have wondered when a man of the tribe of Benjamin, namely, Saul the son of Kish, was chosen by God to be the first human king of Israel. Still, the tribe of Judah loyally fought on the side of Benjaminite King Saul, for they knew that in God’s due time the scepter and the commander’s staff would come into the possession of the tribe of Judah and that, once it became theirs, it would not leave them until the permanent Ruler should come from their tribe, and then it would always be his. So the Judeans had patience. SHILOH 10. Why is this permanent Ruler prophetically called Shiloh? 10 Why is this permanent Ruler called Shiloh? Because this name plays up his right, as the name means “He Whose It Is,” or, “He to Whom It Belongs.” Hence the Catholic Confraternity Version renders the verse: “Until he comes to whom it belongs.” Certainly to no other one would the obedience of the people rightfully belong. 11. What was the real name of the promised Shiloh and how was his right acquired and confirmed? 11 The name of the one who proved to be this promised Shiloh was really Jesus, the Son of God. He came from heaven and was born as a Jew in King David’s line of descent. By his mother Mary he had a natural right to David’s royalty; by his foster-father Joseph he had a legal right to David’s scepter and commander’s staff. But when God anointed Jesus with holy spirit from heaven, this both confirmed the right of Jesus and also appointed him to a kingdom greater than David’s, the kingdom of the heavens. 12. When did it appear that the scepter and commander’s staff had turned aside from Judah, but what does Ezekiel 21:26, 27 show? 12 The tribe of Judah began wielding the scepter in David, and for almost five hundred years the commander’s staff rested between the knees of him and his sons as they sat on the throne. In 607 B.C.E. the family of David was interrupted in holding the scepter and the commander’s staff. This happened when the world power, Babylon, overthrew the kingdom, destroyed its capital city Jerusalem and demolished the temple built by King Solomon for Jehovah’s worship and Israel lost its national sovereignty. This did not mean that the scepter and commander’s staff had turned aside from Judah. The right to these still stayed in Judah, in David’s royal family. Jehovah God indicated this when he inspired his prophet Ezekiel to say to Zedekiah, the last reigning king in Jerusalem: “Remove the turban, and lift off the crown. This will not be the same. Put on high even what is low, and bring low even the high one. A ruin, a ruin, a ruin I shall make it. As for this also, it will certainly become no one’s until he comes who has the legal right, and I must give it to him.”—Ezek. 21:26, 27. 13, 14. (a) To whom did the angel Gabriel say that God would give David’s kingdom? (b) After his baptism what could Jesus say about the kingdom, but when did he come into it, to fulfill Daniel 7:13, 14? 13 When the angel Gabriel announced to the virgin Jewess Mary the coming birth of Jesus, Gabriel declared that God would give Jesus the throne of his forefather David. (Luke 1:31-33) At the age of thirty years Jesus was baptized in water and anointed with God’s spirit, and so he could say even to his Jewish enemies: “The kingdom of God is in your midst.” (Luke 17:21) After he was resurrected from a martyr’s death and exalted to heaven, he sat down on God’s right hand to wait for God’s time to crown him heavenly king and to authorize him to use the scepter and commander’s staff. 14 In the year 1914, according to Bible timing, he came into his heavenly kingdom and began ruling, against the wishes of his enemies in heaven and earth. (Heb. 10:12, 13; Ps. 110:1, 2) The prophecy of Daniel 7:13, 14 foretold this coming, in these words: “See there! with the clouds of the heavens someone like a son of man happened to be coming; and to the Ancient of Days he gained access, and they brought him up close even before that One. And to him there were given rulership and dignity and kingdom, that the peoples, national groups and languages should all serve even him. His rulership is an indefinitely lasting rulership that will not pass away, and his kingdom one that will not be brought to ruin.” 15. (a) To whom, therefore, does our obedience belong, and who on earth today render it to that one? (b) What will happen to those not rendering it, and why? 15 In view of his enthronement in heaven in 1914, he is the One whom we should recognize as the Ruler to whom our obedience belongs. Those few thousands out of the 144,000 members of spiritual Israel who still remain on earth loyally give him their obedience. They obey his commandment, that “this good news of the kingdom will be preached in all the inhabited earth for a witness to all the nations.” (Matt. 24:14) Hundreds of thousands of sheeplike persons who hear the Kingdom good news recognize this Shiloh as the One to whom their obedience belongs. So they obediently join in preaching the good news of God’s established kingdom. All persons who do not now render him their obedience will be destroyed when the end comes upon this wicked old world in an Armageddon disaster. This Shiloh, “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah,” must rule till all enemies are put beneath his feet.—1 Cor. 15:25. 16. How did Jacob’s prophetic reference to an ass come true in Jesus’ earthly life, and with what significance? 16 As foretold by the dying patriarch Jacob, an ass and a vine did figure prominently in the earthly life of Jesus Christ. Just a few days before he was killed for preaching God’s kingdom, Jesus rode into Jerusalem on an ass’s colt, while multitudes of Jews hailed him as king. In ancient times prominent Israelites, judges and prophets had ridden on asses. (Judg. 5:10; 10:3, 4; Num. 22:22-33) King-elect Solomon, the son of David, rode to his anointing to office on his father’s she-mule. (1 Ki. 1:33-40) Likewise Jesus fulfilled the prophecy of Zechariah 9:9 by riding, not a horse, but the colt of an ass, into Jerusalem. But the politically-minded Jewish high priest refused to anoint him as the promised Shiloh at the temple. Later he cried out for Jesus’ death. 17. (a) How did Jesus tie his ass to a choice vine? (b) How will he “wash his clothing in wine and his garment in the blood of grapes”? 17 Jesus did not tie his ass to a literal vine. He did bind his kingly claims to a symbolic vine, a spiritual vine, namely, God’s kingdom. He likened himself to a spiritual vine and his anointed followers to branches in that royal vine. (John 15:1-8) He told the Jews that rejected him a parable or illustration about a vineyard. Then he applied the lesson of it, saying to them: “The kingdom of God will be taken from you and be given to a nation producing its fruits.” (Matt. 21:33-43) However, the faithful heirs of this heavenly kingdom will be like a most fruitful vine, furnishing much grape juice for the making of wine. He will preserve this symbolic vine that abounds with Kingdom fruitage, but he will destroy the false religious vine that produces sour grapes. The blood of the grapes of this false vine will be so great when he crushes the false vine and its abundance of bad grapes that he will, as it were, “wash his clothing in wine and his garment in the blood of grapes.” The stain on his clothing will denote victory.—Rev. 14:19, 20; Isa. 63:1-6. 18. What is the significance of his eyes being dark red from wine, and his teeth white from milk? 18 According to the renderings of Genesis 49:12 in the Greek Septuagint, the Latin Vulgate and the Syriac Bible versions, Judah’s eyes were to be darker red than sparkling wine, and his teeth whiter than milk. However, Isaiah 55:1-4 associates wine and milk with the Kingdom covenant that Jehovah God made with King David. So Jacob’s prophecy appears to refer to the spiritual abundance and joy of Christians who are taken into this Kingdom covenant to rule with the “Lion of the Tribe of Judah.” Hence no drunkenness is meant by the prophecy about eyes dark red from wine, or immaturity or infantileness by the prophecy about teeth white from milk. Since wine denoted gladness and milk richness and fatness, the kingdom of the “Lion of the Tribe of Judah” must be one of godly joy and spiritual prosperity. Such things come to obedient ones. “THE TWELVE TRIBES OF ISRAEL” 67. (a) So what can we today appreciate Jacob to have been? (b) Finally, after the above words to his sons, what did Jacob do? 67 Thus Jacob’s prophecy that had opened up with a somewhat sordid historical reference ended up with a likeness that foresaw glorious victory for Jehovah’s people. After more than three thousand years since Jacob’s death, we can appreciate that he was a true prophet, a faithful witness of Jehovah. He ended his days speaking forth the truth, prophetic truth, which has found its fullest realization in spiritual Israel, built upon someone greater than Jacob, namely, Jesus Christ. After Jacob prophesied over his sons he gave them his farewell blessing. So it is that we read: “All these are the twelve tribes of Israel, and this is what their father spoke to them when he was blessing them. He blessed them each one according to his own blessing.” He then commanded them to bury him with Abraham and Isaac in the Promised Land. “Thus Jacob finished giving commands to his sons. Then he gathered his feet up onto the couch and expired and was gathered to his people.” (Gen. 49:28-33) He still sleeps, awaiting resurrection in God’s new world. 68. (a) What did those “twelve tribes of Israel” become in a typical way? (b) How are they pictured as fellow rulers of the “Lion of the tribe of Judah”? 68 The twelve tribes of Israel that Jacob left behind became a prophetic type of the spiritual twelve tribes of Israel, made up of 144,000 members under the leadership of their heavenly Leader, Jesus Christ, “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah.” Long ago at the mountain of the Ten Commandments God held out to the earthly Israel the opportunity to become to him a “kingdom of priests and a holy nation.” (Ex. 19:1-6) But now the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel have proved worthy to become that kingdom of priests under their Chief Priest, Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. The apostle John, who was one of the twelve apostolic foundations of spiritual Israel, saw the twelve spiritual tribes, of 144,000 members, standing on the heavenly seat of government, Zion, with the Lamb. Thus they are pictured as fellow rulers of the “Lion of the tribe of Judah.” Him the 144,000 follow, “no matter where he goes.”—Rev. 14:1-4. 69. What are the remnant on earth of those fellow rulers of the Lion doing in keeping with Jacob’s prophecy? 69 Today only a remnant of the 144,000 are yet alive on earth and following in his footsteps. They know that the thousand-year kingdom of the “Lion of the tribe of Judah” is very near. They are therefore preaching “this good news of the kingdom” in all the inhabited earth, as Jesus foretold in Matthew 24:14. They are pointing to him as the foretold Shiloh to whom the obedience of the people belongs, for to him the Kingdom right belongs and he has received it from Jehovah God. Whether the nations like it or not, he will reign over all the people living on earth. 70. How should earth’s people be wise now, and why? 70 Be wise, then, all you people. Accept the “good news of the kingdom,” and give your full obedience to this One to whom it rightly belongs, “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah.” Your doing this means everlasting life, peace and joy for you on this earth when it is transformed into a paradise by the thousand-year reign of “The Lion of the Tribe of Judah” and his fellow rulers.