<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>JOSEPH</title>
</head>

<body>
    <h1>

    </h1>
    <h2>
        JOSEPH
    </h2>
    <p>
        52. (a) How did Joseph rate as a son of Jacob? (b) What kind of life record did Joseph have, and this despite
        what taken note of in Jacob’s final words?

        52 The eleventh son of the patriarch Jacob was Joseph, a son of Jacob’s old age, and dearly beloved. But Jacob
        held back from prophesying over Joseph until the eleventh, thus not giving way to sentimentality. Joseph’s name
        means “Increaser; Adder”; and he was the first son of Jacob’s favorite wife Rachel. (Gen. 30:22-24) Joseph’s
        life record was excellent. Both his father and his eleven brothers were indebted to him, as now he was prime
        minister and food administrator of famine-stricken Egypt. In prophesying about Joseph, the dying Jacob took note
        of how Joseph overcame hardship, saying:

        “Offshoot of a fruit-bearing tree, Joseph is the offshoot of a fruit-bearing tree by the fountain, that propels
        its branches up over a wall. But the archers kept harassing him and shot at him and kept harboring animosity
        against him. And yet his bow was dwelling in a permanent place, and the strength of his hands was supple. From
        the hands of the powerful one of Jacob, from there is the shepherd, the stone of Israel. He is from the God of
        your father, and he will help you; and he is with the Almighty, and he will bless you with the blessings of the
        heavens above, with the blessings of the watery deep lying down below, with the blessings of the breasts and
        womb. The blessings of your father will indeed be superior to the blessings of the eternal mountains, to the
        ornament of the indefinitely lasting hills. They will continue upon the head of Joseph, even upon the crown of
        the head of the one singled out from his brothers.”—Gen. 49:22-26.

        53. (a) Who was this “fruit-bearing tree by the fountain”? (b) How did Joseph become one of its branches
        propelled up over a wall?

        53 Jacob, the father of twelve sons and a daughter, is himself the symbolic “fruit-bearing tree” of which Joseph
        is the offshoot. Well watered by a fountain, this “tree” propelled its branches up over the enclosing wall.
        Joseph became one of those tall branches of prominence, along with Judah, who got the kingship of the nation of
        Israel. However, Joseph got the birthright from Jacob because of the serious moral failure of Reuben, Joseph’s
        oldest half brother. Being heir to two parts of his father’s inheritance, Joseph got special prominence through
        his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, whom the patriarch Jacob appointed to be two tribes in Israel, the equals of
        the direct sons of Jacob. On the western side of the Jordan River their territories lay alongside each other,
        although Manasseh’s territory also extended eastward beyond the Jordan River into Gilead.—Josh. 16:1 to 17:11.

        54. As to prominence in Israel, how was this shown in Ezekiel’s vision (a) of the land and (b) of the city
        Jehovah-shammah and (c) of the reunification of Israel, and (d) In Zechariah’s prophecy?

        54 In Ezekiel’s vision of the division of the land, Joseph is not named, but he is represented by his two sons,
        Manasseh and Ephraim, who occupy the fourth and fifth allotments. However, in the city Jehovah-shammah a gate is
        named after Joseph and none after his sons. In Ezekiel’s vision of the reunifying of Jehovah’s people, Joseph is
        spoken of as chief of the one part of the nation and Judah as the chief of the other part. (Ezek. 48:4-6, 32;
        37:15-26) And in Zechariah’s prophecy that looked forward to our day Jehovah God says: “And I will make the
        house of Judah superior, and the house of Joseph I shall save. And I will give them a dwelling, for I will show
        them mercy.” (Zech. 10:6) Thus in the nation of Israel Joseph always had prominence, like a tall branch.

        55. (a) How did “archers” shoot at Joseph? (b) How was the strength of Joseph’s arms made supple to pull his own
        “bow”?

        55 As a young man Joseph had many who shot at him figuratively, to destroy him because of God’s favor to him.
        This was specially the case with his half brothers. Though they harbored animosity against him, Joseph did not
        pay them back in kind. He repaid them with mercy and loving-kindness, and these were like arrows that killed
        their animosity. His arm of strength was powerful to hold the bow to shoot such arrows of mercy, long-suffering,
        forgiveness, that did not kill people but led to the saving of human lives. Thus the enemy archers not only
        failed to kill Joseph but did not weaken Joseph in his devotion to righteousness and brotherly kindness. By
        God’s spirit upon him Joseph kept strong for righteousness, and he overcame the bad with the good.—Rom. 12:21.

        56. (a) How did the “shepherd” come from the hands of Jacob’s “powerful one”? (b) How did the “stone of Israel”
        come from there also?

        56 Jehovah God was the “powerful one” to Joseph’s father Jacob. His powerful hands strengthened Joseph. From
        those hands comes the shepherd of the people. Joseph became a shepherd or overseer for the people of Israel.
        Jesus Christ the Son of God becomes the Fine Shepherd who lays down his life for all of God’s sheep. (John
        10:11-16) From the all-powerful Jehovah also came the “stone of Israel.” That is what Joseph became, when he did
        not take vengeance but acted as a caretaker, feeder and protector of the twelve tribes of Israel in Egypt during
        the famine. From the powerful God of Jacob is also the symbolic Stone of spiritual Israel, namely, Jesus Christ.
        He is the Foundation Cornerstone upon which rests God’s spiritual temple at which all men who seek life must
        worship God. (Eph. 2:20-22; 1 Pet. 2:4-6) So the Shepherd, the Stone of Israel, is a gift from the God of
        Joseph’s father Jacob. This Shepherd is with the Almighty God. He is on the side of the Almighty God and walks
        with him. We can safely entrust ourselves to this Shepherd.

        57. (a) With what was Joseph to be blessed in the land of Israel? (b) How superior and how continuous were these
        blessings to be on the head of Joseph?

        57 The patriarch Jacob assured Joseph that in the land of Israel the Almighty God would bless the tribes of his
        sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, with needed water supplies, from heaven and from underground, for drinking and for
        agriculture. The Almighty One would also bless them with a large population, making the wombs of their wives
        very fruitful and making their breasts suckle many babies. The blessings like those that Joseph’s father Jacob
        enjoyed and the blessings that Jacob pronounced upon his beloved son Joseph would be like an ornament to the two
        tribes that sprang from Joseph. These blessings would be an ornament superior to the blessings of forests and
        fountains that adorn the eternal mountains and the indefinitely lasting hills. They would be permanent
        blessings, continuing upon the head of Joseph and of those descended from him just as long as the mountains and
        hills continued.

        58, 59. (a) How was Joseph singled out from his brothers, to become worthy of what? (b) How was he favored in
        spiritual Israel?

        58 According to his conduct Joseph deserved such blessings. It was no case of partiality toward him. He was
        “singled out from his brothers,” not because his father specially loved him as a son of his old age by his
        favorite wife, but because God chose him to perform a fine prophetic role. Joseph did not separate himself from
        his brothers, but they were the ones that got rid of him for a time. Not by acting unapproachable, but by
        showing excellence of spirit and the ability to manage and oversee and organize, Joseph distinguished himself
        above his brothers. It was only right that special blessings should descend upon the crown of his head.

        59 Certainly out of proper respect for Joseph, a tribe was named after him rather than after Joseph’s second
        son, Ephraim, among the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel.—Rev. 7:8.
    </p>
</body>

</html>