    <h2>
        NAPHTALI
    </h2>
    <p>
        48. (a) Why was Jacob’s sixth son named Naphtali? (b) To what did Jacob liken Naphtali?

        48 In telling his sons what would happen to them in the “final part of the days” the prophet Jacob turned his
        attention to Naphtali tenth in order. But Naphtali was really Jacob’s sixth son, the son of his father’s
        concubine Bilhah, the maidservant of Rachel, Jacob’s dear wife. Up to then Rachel herself had borne no children.
        So when her maidservant bore this second son, Naphtali, this was quite an achievement in Rachel’s struggle to
        give some fruitage of marriage to her husband Jacob. In expression of this she called the boy’s name Naphtali,
        which means “My Wrestlings.” (Gen. 30:7, 8) In his case his father spoke a fine likeness, saying:

        “Naphtali is a slender hind. He is giving words of elegance.”—Gen. 49:21.

        49. (a) How was the tribe of Naphtali like that? (b) About what were they first of all concerned in the days of
        Barak?

        49 Jacob likened him to an animal that is both swift and graceful in movement. As the tribe of Naphtali produced
        fighters, these were qualities that were good for men of war to have. They were skillful in warfare and swift in
        pursuit of the enemy. Judge Barak was from this tribe, for the prophetess Deborah called him out of the northern
        city of Kedesh-naphtali to take up God’s service against the enemy. The tribesmen of Naphtali were right with
        Barak in this fight for the liberation of Jehovah’s people and for the honor of Jehovah’s name. They were not
        first of all concerned about their own lives. The victory song of Judge Barak and of Deborah takes note of this
        admirable disposition, saying: “Zebulun was a people that scorned their souls to the point of death; Naphtali
        also, on the heights of the field. Kings came, they fought; it was then that the kings of Canaan fought in
        Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. No gain of silver did they take. From heaven did the stars fight, from their
        orbits they fought against Sisera.” (Judg. 5:18-20) In this battle the tribesmen of Naphtali were no doubt like
        hinds.

        50, 51. (a) How were “words of elegance” given in the “land of Naphtali” nineteen hundred years ago? (b) What
        kind of tribesmen is it appropriate to have also in spiritual Israel?

        50 Naphtali was to be elegant, not only in going like a slender hind, but also in “giving words.” In God’s
        service “words of elegance” are most desirable; and in Naphtali’s territory words were spoken nineteen centuries
        ago that were specially elegant. Part of Naphtali’s territory ran along the western shore of the Sea of
        Chinneroth, later called the Sea of Galilee. Here, in part, was fulfilled Isaiah’s prophecy, chapter nine,
        verses one and two. The apostle Matthew records its fulfillment, saying:

        “After leaving Nazareth, he came and took up residence in Capernaum beside the sea in the districts of Zebulun
        and Naphtali, that there might be fulfilled what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying: ‘O land of
        Zebulun and land of Naphtali, along the road of the sea, on the other side of the Jordan, Galilee of the
        nations! the people sitting in darkness saw a great light, and as for those sitting in a region of deathly
        shadow, light rose upon them.’ From that time on Jesus commenced preaching and saying: ‘Repent, for the kingdom
        of the heavens has drawn near.’”—Matt. 4:13-17.

        51 For “giving words of elegance” no man surpassed Jesus Christ as he preached God’s kingdom. He became as a
        native of the territory, for though he was reared in Nazareth he made Capernaum in Naphtali’s territory “his own
        city.” (Matt. 9:1) Not friends, but officers sent to arrest him were the ones that said of Jesus’ speech: “Never
        has another man spoken like this.” (John 7:46) What enlightenment his elegant words brought to seekers for God,
        to show them the way out of the darkness of God’s disfavor and his condemnation to death! It is very
        appropriate, then, that the tribes of spiritual Israel include a tribe of Naphtali, the fifth tribe to be named.
        (Rev. 7:6) This reminds us that all the spiritual Israelites are enlightened with the message of God’s kingdom,
        to preach it with “words of elegance” like those of Naphtali.
    </p>
</body>

</html>