<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Document</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>

    </h1>
    <h2>
        REUBEN
    </h2>
    <p>
        23. How did Jacob’s firstborn son happen to get his name, and what questions now arose as to his position as the firstborn?

        23 Speaking with poetic parallelisms, Jacob prophesied over Reuben, his firstborn son by his first but less-loved wife Leah, a Syrian girl. So at his birth Leah said: “See, a son!” and then made this exclamation his name, Reuben. As the firstborn son of Jacob, Reuben naturally had the rights of the firstborn son of the family. As such he was entitled to two portions in the estate that Jacob his father left behind. The question was, Would Reuben now come into these rights of the firstborn? Also, the patriarch Jacob, as head of the family, had acted as Jehovah’s priest for the whole family and had offered up sacrifices at the family altar and had led in prayer and in giving religious instruction. As father he had also acted as the governor of the whole family and of all its servants and livestock and properties. What about those privileges?

        24. How were the twelve families to conduct themselves after Jacob’s death, and what questions must his words over Reuben now settle?

        24 With the death of their common father the twelve sons were not to break up into twelve families, each one going its own way; they were to stick together as one people, one nation. But who was now to act as priest for this people or congregation? Who was to act in the governing position? Were such privileges that ordinarily belonged to the firstborn to be assigned to Reuben by the inspiration of God’s spirit? So we listen to Jacob’s words with at least as much interest as Jacob’s twelve sons had when they listened:

        “Reuben, you are my first-born, my vigor and the beginning of my generative power, the excellence of dignity and the excellence of strength. With reckless license like waters, do not you excel, because you have gone up to your father’s bed. At that time you profaned my lounge. He went up to it!”—Gen. 49:3, 4.

        25, 26. (a) By what expression did Jacob emphasize that Reuben was his firstborn, and of what should he have proved worthy? (b) What is meant by the expression “the excellence of dignity”? By the expression “the excellence of strength”?

        25 Before his marriage night with his first wife Leah, Jacob had had no sexual intercourse. His power to generate children had not been sapped by then, although at this time (1774 B.C.E.) he was in his eighty-fourth year of age. His last child and son was not born till more than thirteen years afterward. So he could address his firstborn Reuben as “my vigor and the beginning of my generative power.” Reuben should have been the best son of the family, worthy to have twice as much inheritance as any of his brothers. (Deut. 21:17) He should have excelled his brothers in all ways.

        26 To Reuben naturally should have gone “the excellence of dignity and the excellence of strength.” By the expression “excellence of dignity” appears to be meant the priesthood of the nation. The priesthood should have been supplied by the male members of the tribe of Reuben. By the expression “the excellence of strength” may be meant the governorship or kingship, when at any time this people should become a kingdom. The dignity of the priesthood of Jehovah God should have fallen upon Reuben, and the strength of governorship or of kingdom should have been laid upon his shoulder. What did Jacob prophesy about this? Did Jacob’s prophecy come true?

        27. What disqualification did Jacob recall against Reuben?

        27 Jacob recalled a disqualification for Reuben that affected him as to all three privileges, that of firstborn, that of priesthood and that of rulership. Reuben had disgraced his father. He had committed incestuous immorality with his father’s concubine, Bilhah, the maidservant of Jacob’s beloved wife Rachel. This was shortly after dear Rachel died, after giving birth to Benjamin. Whether firstborn Reuben violated the maidservant Bilhah to prevent her from taking Rachel’s place in Jacob’s affection and thus becoming more favored than Reuben’s mother Leah; or whether Reuben acted out of sheer lust for Bilhah, the Bible record does not explain. It simply says: “And it came about while Israel was tabernacling in that land that once Reuben went and lay down with Bilhah his father’s concubine, and Israel got to hear of it.” And the Greek Septuagint Version of the Holy Scriptures adds: “And it appeared evil in his sight.”—Gen. 35:22, NW; LXX (Thomson).

        28. (a) When did Reuben’s sin catch up with him, and with what consequences? (b) How had Reuben acted, but how should he have acted?

        28 At the time of this serious offense against his father Jacob and against the mother of his half-brothers Dan and Naphtali, firstborn Reuben was not disowned and cast out. But now finally, about fifty years later, Reuben’s sin finds him out, catches up with him. (Num. 32:6, 23) Under divine inspiration his dying father tells him the consequences of his vile act. Jacob says to him: “Do not you excel.” Thus Reuben is stripped of the “excellence of dignity and the excellence of strength” and also of the right of a firstborn son to two parts of his father’s inheritance. Why? Because he acted with “reckless license like waters.” He proved himself either unstable like waters or turbulent and headlong like waters bursting a dam or raging down a torrent valley. Reckless license that is careless of the consequences does not go together with excellence. Reuben should have exercised self-control. He should have shown a son’s respect for his father’s dignity and for the honor of the two sons of Bilhah, his father’s concubine.

        29, 30. (a) Later on, what case in the congregation of Corinth, Greece, was like that of Reuben? (b) Who suffered for Reuben’s immorality, and how?

        29 Reuben profaned his own father’s marriage bed. This was something like the case in the Christian congregation at Corinth, Greece, much later on, in which the apostle Paul disfellowshiped a professed Christian who took his father’s wife and had sexual relations with her. (1 Cor. 5:1-13) Finding it distasteful to speak directly to Reuben about this shameless conduct any further, Jacob closes his prophetic judgment over firstborn Reuben by saying: “He went up to it!” For Reuben’s immorality his sons, yes, his whole tribe suffered. How this was is stated in 1 Chronicles 5:1, 2:

        30 “And the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel—for he was the first-born; but for his profaning the lounge of his father his right as first-born was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel, so that he was not to be enrolled genealogically for the right of the first-born. For Judah himself proved to be superior among his brothers, and the one for leader was from him; but the right as first-born was Joseph’s.”

        31, 32. (a) How did Reuben’s descendants not excel or distinguish themselves in Israel? (b) What showing did they make in the days of Judge Barak and in the day that Assyria took Northern Israel captive?

        31 Reuben’s privileges of overseership in the nation of Israel were forfeited because he dishonored his natural position as firstborn. None of Reuben’s descendants became one of the judges, prophets or leaders of Israel. When the twelve tribes of Israel settled in the Promised Land in the fifteenth century B.C.E., Reuben was given his allotment of territory east of the Dead Sea and Jordan River. Later on, when the battle was fought at the “waters of Megiddo” to free the land of the Canaanite oppressor King Jabin and his general Sisera, the Reubenites did not go to the support of Judge Barak and the prophetess Deborah. Hence in their victory song Barak and Deborah took note of the failure of the Reubenites, singing: “Among the divisions of Reuben great were the searchings of the heart. Gilead [alongside of Reuben] kept to his residence on the other side of the Jordan.”—Judg. 5:15, 17.

        32 Centuries afterward, when the northern Kingdom of Israel was taken captive into Assyria, the Reubenites were among the first ones to be carried off. (1 Chron. 5:26) Truly the tribe of Reuben did not excel above its fellow tribes in Israel.

        33. What position is given to the tribe of Reuben in Ezekiel’s vision of the land distribution under God’s kingdom?

        33 In Ezekiel’s vision of the division of the land, to picture the land distribution under God’s kingdom of the new world, Reuben is not given a position right next to the “holy contribution” of land in which lie Jehovah’s temple, the city Jehovah-Shammah and the chieftain’s territory. Judah is put right north of the holy contribution, and Reuben is next north of Judah.—Ezek. 48:6-22.

        34. What is not strange, then, about the vision of the sealing of the 144,000, but of what are the members thereof reminded by this?

        34 It is not strange, then, that in the apostle John’s vision of the sealing of the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel, the tribe of Reuben is not given the leading mention but is named second, or after the tribe of Judah. (Rev. 7:5; see page 364.) Thus the members of the 144,000 spiritual Israelites are reminded of how Reuben forfeited precious privileges for not setting the right example as a faithful overseer among the chosen people of Jehovah God.

        35. For reckless license like that of Reuben what consequences will follow to spiritual Israelites, and how was this illustrated in the case of the immoral Christian in Corinth?

        35 Any dedicated, baptized persons in spiritual Israel who take reckless license and show instability and rush headlong into adultery or fornication are bound to lose out for it. They may show sincere repentance for their immorality, but they have inerasibly tarnished their record. They have set a poor example for God’s flock. Like that man in the Corinthian congregation who profaned his father’s marriage bed, they may be excommunicated and be later reinstated because of their sadness in a godly way leading to repentance. But after being thus excommunicated, that Corinthian man could not show himself to be qualified for the exemplary position of overseer in the Christian congregation. (2 Cor. 7:9, 10; 2:6-11) He was not irreprehensible and not a healthy example to God’s flock, as an overseer should be. (1 Tim. 3:1-4; Titus 1:5-9) Like the tribe of Reuben, he was not suitable to take the leading position in spiritual Israel.

        36. (a) All the 144,000 are in the congregation of what rank? (b) Though there is a tribe of Reuben in spiritual Israel, on what may the 144,000 not presume, and why not?

        36 So in the light of the humiliating judgment that Reuben’s dying father pronounced over him, his case has a solemn lesson for the small remainder of the 144,000 members of spiritual Israel still on earth. All the 144,000 make up the “congregation of the first-born who have been enrolled in the heavens,” and they ought to conduct themselves as such all the time. (Heb. 12:23) But because of acting recklessly, without thinking of the consequences, as Reuben did, some may suffer the loss of special privileges in the Christian congregation here on earth, irrevocably. Only by God’s mercy and because of submitting to spiritual healing they are not permanently disowned and kept out of spiritual Israel. By God’s loving-kindness there is a tribe of Reuben in spiritual Israel. For this we can be grateful; but let us not presume on God’s mercy and thereby take risks. Reuben suffered consequences. So will we!
    </p>
</body>
</html>