<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Document</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>

    </h1>
    <h2>
        SIMEON AND LEVI
    </h2>
    <p>
        37, 38. (a) To what extent were Simeon and Levi brothers, and what do their names mean? (b) According to Jacob’s final words, in what had been their brotherly cooperation?

        37 Passing from his firstborn son, the patriarch Jacob turned his attention to his second son, Simeon, and his third son, Levi, both of these being the sons of his first wife Leah. Prophesying in the style of Hebrew poetry, the dying Jacob said:

        “Simeon and Levi are brothers. Instruments of violence are their slaughter weapons. Into their intimate group do not come, O my soul. With their congregation do not become united, O my disposition, because in their anger they killed men, and in their arbitrariness they hamstrung bulls. Cursed be their anger, because it is cruel, and their fury, because it acts harshly. Let me give them a portion in Jacob, but let me scatter them in Israel.”—Gen. 49:5-7.

        38 These two full brothers cooperated together, but this they did in bad works. The name Simeon means “Hearing,” that is, with acceptance; and the name Levi means “Joined; Adherence.”

        39, 40. (a) What was the special occasion when Simeon and Levi used instruments of violence as their slaughter weapons? (b) How did they then answer their father on this matter?

        39 The special occasion when instruments of violence were their slaughter weapons was when they took it arbitrarily upon themselves to avenge the honor of their full-sister Dinah. This was before their oldest brother, Reuben, violated their father’s concubine Bilhah. When the patriarch Jacob’s encampment was near the city of Shechem in the Promised Land, Dinah’s virginity was violated. This was done by the son of the Hivite chieftain of that city. Dinah’s brothers schemed to take their revenge. Insisting that the violator had to get circumcised like an Israelite before he could marry Dinah, they got all the males of Shechem to be circumcised. On the third day of their circumcision, when the circumcised men ached so badly that they could hardly move, Simeon and Levi took action.

        40 “The two sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, brothers of Dinah, proceeded to take each one his sword and to go unsuspectedly to the city and to kill every male. And [Chieftain] Hamor and Shechem his son they killed with the edge of the sword. Then they took Dinah from Shechem’s house and went on out.” The plundering of the city and the carrying off of the women and children followed at the hands of other sons of Jacob, “because they had defiled their sister.” When Jacob showed no sympathy with what had been done and rebuked Simeon and Levi, they answered: “Ought anyone to treat our sister like a prostitute?”—Gen. 33:18 to 34:31.

        41. What had been their intention toward Joseph when seventeen years old, and when did their father find out about that?

        41 Years later, when their half-brother Joseph had become seventeen years old, Simeon and Levi wanted to kill him because they envied Joseph’s being their father’s favorite son. Reuben their older brother did not want to kill Joseph, neither did Judah the brother next oldest to Simeon and Levi. And the still younger brothers, the four sons of Jacob’s two concubines, were on friendly terms with Joseph or tolerated him. And the still younger Issachar and Zebulun had no controlling voice in the matter. So when Joseph paid them a visit of inspection near the city of Dothan, it was apparently Simeon and Levi who led in “plotting cunningly against him to put him to death.” Judah’s suggestion turned them aside from killing him, and Reuben came back among them too late to prevent their selling Joseph as a slave to be taken down into Egypt. (Gen. 37:2-36) In due time, after Joseph was found alive in Egypt as its prime minister, Jacob learned how the sudden disappearance of his son had come about. Likely Jacob had this in mind also when he spoke of the “instruments of violence” of Simeon and Levi.

        42. Were it not for using instruments of violence, into what position might Simeon or after him Levi have come?

        42 True, Joseph was the firstborn son of his father’s beloved wife Rachel, but he was born years after Simeon and Levi, as Jacob’s eleventh son. So had it not been for their vengeful violence against the inhabitants of Shechem without their father’s consent, they might have come into the position of leadership after Reuben forfeited it, Simeon having the first opportunity and Levi after him. But Jacob’s expression of judgment upon them on his deathbed showed plainly that they had both forfeited that opportunity.

        43. How, on the last day of his life, did Jacob show that he had and that he wanted no community responsibility for their crime?

        43 Thus on the last day of his life Jacob cleared himself of all connection with the violence committed against the city of Shechem. The violating of his daughter Dinah did not make it right. Jacob’s soul, which was about to die there in Egypt, wanted no intimacy with Simeon and Levi in such a crime. Jacob’s very disposition was against uniting itself with the congregation of persons of extreme violence like that. Before finishing his course in life he declared that he had no community responsibility for that shedding of blood. Simeon and Levi had let anger get the better of them; they had acted arbitrarily in taking such vengeful action without first consulting their father. They had made him a stench to all Canaan.

        44. On what did Jacob pronounce his curse, and what was he determined to do regarding the future possibilities of Simeon and Levi?

        44 Now, however, about fifty years afterward, Jacob did not, in his dying breath, curse Simeon and Levi themselves. He cursed their anger, “because it is cruel.” He cursed their fury, “because it acts harshly.” He could not approve of it even in his own sons, even when poured out for the sake of his own daughter. He forgave them, but he would not change the consequences toward them. He could not appoint either of them to the leading position or to the rulership. He did not make them and their tribes outcasts in Israel, but he would now break up their unity and cooperation in works of cruel anger and harsh fury. Under prophetic inspiration Jacob appointed to them a place in the land that God had promised to give him and his descendants. They came into it 239 years later, but Jacob foretold that they would not be neighbors in the land.

        45. In harmony with Jacob’s determination, what kind of portion in Israel was given to Simeon and to Levi?

        45 Prophetically, and as an heir of the Promised Land, Jacob gave Simeon and Levi a “portion in Jacob,” but for neither of them was it a solid portion, an unbroken portion. Jacob portioned the two brothers out in the land. Thus not only were Simeon and Levi disunited from each other in the land, but each one was divided within himself. When the prophet Moses blessed the tribes of Israel shortly before they crossed the Jordan River into the Promised Land, Moses did not even mention the name of Simeon. (Deut. 33:16-23) The tribe of Simeon was located in little islands of territory here and there throughout the big piece of territory allotted to the tribe of Judah. None of these enclaves as surrounded by Judah’s territory was alongside the city of Jerusalem, which became the national capital. When the tribes contributed cities from their territory to the Levite priests to serve as cities of refuge for unintentional manslayers to flee to, no city was contributed by the tribe of Simeon. When forty-eight cities were assigned to all the Levites including the priests, only thirteen of these were contributed by the tribes of Judah, Simeon and Benjamin. So the Levites must have taken up residence in few cities of the tribe of Simeon.—Josh. 20:7-9; 19:1-9; 21:3, 4.

        46. By God’s instructions to Moses, with what privilege were the Levites honored, and how did this enable them to come all together again for work?

        46 Not by Jacob’s prophecy, but by Jehovah’s later instruction to the Levite prophet Moses, the tribe of Levi was honored with the privilege of the priesthood and the ministry at Jehovah’s temple of worship. Hence the Levites got no inheritance in the Promised Land, inasmuch as Jehovah God was really their inheritance. What might have been their territory allotment in the Promised Land was given to the tribe of one of the sons of Joseph; so that the whole nation of Israel still had twelve tribal territories. These twelve tribes all contributed a total of forty-eight cities for the residence of the Levites when not serving at Jehovah’s temple. So it was that the members of the tribe of Levi were scattered worse than Simeon was, namely, all over the land of Israel. Only at Jehovah’s temple did the Levites all come together again, for a good work in Jehovah’s service at his regular appointed festivals and on the atonement day. How marvelously was established the truth of Jacob’s words to Simeon and Levi: “Let me scatter them in Israel”!

        47, 48. (a) How did this hold true with regard to Simeon and Levi even in Ezekiel’s vision of the division of the land? (b) What does such continual separating of the two brothers emphasize?

        47 This held true even in Ezekiel’s prophetic vision of the division of the land under the coming kingdom of God. The members of the tribe of Levi were located in the “holy contribution” around Jehovah’s sanctuary. The tribe of Simeon was separated to the south of the Holy Contribution, next below the tribe of Benjamin, which bordered on the south of the Holy Contribution. (Ezek. 48:8-14, 22, 24) Thus Simeon was not in direct touch with the government of the land. And in Ezekiel’s vision of the seat of government, the city named Jehovah-Shammah (meaning “Jehovah Himself Is There”), the gates of Simeon and of Levi are not alongside each other, but Simeon’s gate is seventh and on the south, although Levi’s gate is third and on the north.—Ezek. 48:31, 33; see page 367.

        48 This continual separating of Simeon and Levi emphasizes how God disapproves of brothers or others acting together in a harsh, cruel work under the influence of anger.

        49. How did Priest Phinehas show he appreciated that fact, and of what did he show himself worthy?

        49 Priest Phinehas of the tribe of Levi showed he appreciated that fact by the way that he acted on the plains of Moab just across the Jordan River from the Promised Land. When the Israelites began to have immoral, idolatrous relations with the daughters of Moab, Prince Zimri of the tribe of Simeon brazenly brought an idolatrous pagan girl, the Midianite princess Cozbi, through the camp of Israel and into his tent to have sexual pleasure with her. Did Levite Phinehas approve of this because this was done by a man of Simeon? Did he cooperate with Zimri, as Levi had cooperated with Simeon in a cursed deed? No! But Phinehas burst into the Simeonite’s tent with a lance and killed both Zimri and his pagan girl friend. Because of this jealousy for God’s worship Phinehas got God’s blessing. He showed that, as a Levite, he was worthy of the priesthood.—Num. 25:1-15.

        50, 51. (a) What does the presence of a tribe of Levi in spiritual Israel not mean for that tribe, and why not? (b) Of what does Jacob’s prophecy over Simeon and Levi remind us, and how have members of spiritual Israel been guilty in this respect?

        50 In the lineup of the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel Simeon is ranked seventh and Levi eighth. (See page 364.) The fact that one tribe is named for Levi does not mean that the 12,000 of this tribe serve as a priesthood for all of spiritual Israel. No; but all the 144,000 are priests. Concerning all 144,000 it is written: “They will be priests of God and of the Christ, and will rule as kings with him for the thousand years.” (Rev. 20:6) So the name Levi should remind us of something else than priesthood. Likewise Simeon.

        51 What Jacob’s deathbed prophecy reminds us of in connection with Simeon and Levi is that a curse rests on the use of instruments of violence as slaughter weapons to give vent to cruel anger and harsh fury. Those who make up the spiritual tribes of Simeon and Levi may have used such weapons angrily and furiously in slaughter of their fellowmen in military combats of this world or even in personally avenging themselves or defending the family name. But now that they have become members of spiritual Israel they forsake such cursed practices, knowing that “hatreds, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, contentions, divisions” are the “works of the flesh” and are not the “fruitage of the spirit” of God.—Gal. 5:19-22.

        52, 53. (a) What action has the remnant of spiritual Israel still on earth taken toward instruments of violence? (b) What tribesmen may therefore safely be ranked together, and why?

        52 We have evidence that nineteen hundred years ago, when the twelve apostolic foundations of the New Jerusalem were still on earth, the Christians applied to themselves the prophetic words of Isaiah 2:4 that have been misappropriated today by the United Nations. Likewise today those on earth who may be of the spiritual tribes of Simeon and Levi, in fact, the small remainder on earth of all twelve tribes of spiritual Israel, renounce the use of instruments of violence and slaughter weapons and try to live up to Isaiah 2:4, which says: “And they will have to beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning shears. Nation will not lift up sword against nation, neither will they learn war any more.” So those belonging to the spiritual tribes of Simeon and Levi have undergone a change of personality. Although in spiritual Israel they are ranked next to each other, they can be trusted to work together safely, for now they obey Romans 12:17-19:

        53 “Return evil for evil to no one. . . . Do not avenge yourselves, beloved, but yield place to the wrath; for it is written: ‘Vengeance is mine; I will repay, says Jehovah.’”
    </p>

</body>
</html>