    <h2>
        ZEBULUN
    </h2>
    <p>
        19. (a) Where in the order of the birth of Jacob’s sons did Zebulun come in? (b) Why was what Jacob prophesied
        about Zebulun in harmony with the meaning of his name?

        19 In the order of birth of all of Jacob’s sons by his two wives and two concubines, Issachar was his ninth son
        and Zebulun his tenth. Among the tribes of spiritual Israel or the Kingdom class the tribe of Zebulun is ranked
        tenth. (Rev. 7:8) When giving his final prophecy the patriarch Jacob put Zebulun ahead of Issachar, though
        Issachar was Jacob’s fifth son by his first wife Leah, whereas Zebulun was his sixth son by her. In Ezekiel’s
        vision of the division of the land under God’s government of the new world, Issachar is properly put ahead of
        his younger brother Zebulun. Likewise in the gates of the symbolic city Jehovah-shammah (meaning “Jehovah
        Himself Is There”). (Ezek. 48:25, 26, 33) The name Zebulun means “Habitation; Dwelling.” In his deathbed
        prophecy Jacob foretold Zebulun’s location in the Promised Land, saying:

        “Zebulun will reside by the seashore, and he will be by the shore where the ships lie anchored; and his remote
        side will be toward Sidon.”—Gen. 49:13.

        20. How was Jacob’s prophecy realized in Zebulun’s location in the land of Israel?

        20 Here Jacob tells where Zebulun’s tribe will dwell in the “land flowing with milk and honey.” When the land
        was partly conquered after six years of fighting, Judge Joshua drew the third lot for Zebulun, but the cities
        and towns assigned to Zebulun did not border directly on the sea. His territory did lie between the Sea of
        Galilee on the east and the Mediterranean on the west. To the shores of these seas he had easy access. (Josh.
        19:10-16) Since the Phoenician seaport of Sidon was to the north of Israel and since Zebulun’s remote side was
        to be toward Sidon, the location of Zebulun’s territory was to be a northern one. Though his territory was cut
        off from the seas by the territories of other tribes, Zebulun’s land was traversed by the old international
        highway known as “the way by the sea.” So it was located in the district called “Galilee of the nations.”—Isa.
        9:1; 1 Ki. 9:11; Josh. 20:7.

        21. According to Isaiah 9:1, 2, what was to come to the land of Zebulun, and how did it really come?

        21 When the prophet Isaiah was foretelling the birth of the promised Shiloh upon whose shoulder the princely
        rule would rest, he specifically named Zebulun as a territory where great enlightenment would come, to scatter a
        deep shadow like that of death. This enlightenment that was to lead to deliverance from sin and death did come
        when the promised Shiloh, Jesus Christ, preached in Galilee of the nations, saying: “Repent, for the kingdom of
        the heavens has drawn near.” (Isa. 9:1, 2, 6, 7;Matt. 4:12-23) Jesus went even north of Zebulun and got “into
        the parts of Tyre and Sidon,” where he performed a miracle for a Phoenician woman. (Matt. 15:21-29) Thus Zebulun
        dwelt in a very favorable location in the land of Israel.

        22, 23. In Bible history what favorable mentions did Zebulun receive (a) in Barak’s day, (b) in Gideon’s day,
        and (c) in King David’s day?

        22 In Bible history Zebulun received a number of favorable mentions. When Jehovah fought for his oppressed
        people at the “waters of Megiddo,” in the days of Judge Barak and the prophetess Deborah, the men of Zebulun
        volunteered for the army of liberation. Hence Barak and Deborah sang with appreciation of them, saying: “Out of
        Machir the commanders went down, and out of Zebulun those handling the equipment of a scribe [for numbering and
        enrolling the troops]. Zebulun was a people that scorned their souls to the point of death.” (Judg. 5:14, 18,
        19; 4:16) Years afterward God raised up Judge Gideon for Israel’s deliverance. Gideon “sent out messengers
        through Asher and Zebulun and Naphtali, and they came on up to meet him.” It is likely that some of the three
        hundred select troops, with which Gideon put to flight the Midianite invaders, were from the tribe of
        Zebulun.—Judg. 6:34, 35; 7:1-7.

        23 When the time came for all the tribes to turn the kingship of all Israel over to David, the tribe of Zebulun
        furnished him a sizable body of troops, concerning whom 1 Chronicles 12:33 says: “For flocking together to David
        they were not of a double heart.”

        24. Zebulunites came into line for what, and how?

        24 When Jesus preached in our first century in territory that had belonged to Zebulun, many from there flocked
        to him and came into line for membership in the twelve tribes of spiritual Israel.
    </p>
    
</body>

</html>